This is just a quick lab to discuss performance.
So we've already seen that with volumes.
we can choose different volume types and you can choose provisioned IOPS for instance and we know
that you can go up to 64000 IOPS at the very top.
Now some of this is dependent on the instance you use.
So there's a thing called EBS optimized instances.
So this is an article that covers EBS optimized instances and what these are is just an instance that's
being configured in a way that it has dedicated capacity for the EBS.
In other words as you know the traffic that goes to EBS volumes goes from an instance and then it goes
over the network to where the actual EBS volumes are.
So what it does is it dedicates some capacity in the network adapter so you should do that or at the
very least you should ensure that you use an instance that has 10 gigabits per second network interfaces
so you can pop down in this article and it shows you the types of instances that support EBS optimized.
So if we go back to the console we can launch
and then on this screen if you come down to see some of these say for instance we saw I think a few
of those with the C4 extra large for instance.
So here we go you got the C4 extra large and you can see it's got a high network performance.
And that means you can then use provisioned IOPS volumes with this type of instance and have a large amount
of IOPS dedicated. Another option if you don't use those is to use
RAID
So RAID stands for redundant array of independent disks and you can look it up.
Now this is also an array of inexpensive discs.
There's two different ways that you can call it.
So RAID is a way that you can use multiple discs to aggregate performance and there's different ways
that you can do that.
This happens in AWS at the operating system level so in other words you configure this through
your operating system you would attach multiple volumes and then you'd configure one of these types
of RAID like RAID zero or RAID one for your operating system
so it is actually important to know this for the exam.
I would at least know the difference between RAID zero which is striping and RAID one which is mirroring
your discs, and you need to understand what the performance and redundancy benefits are of each of these
different types of RAID.
And that's all here.
So you can look that up here.
Another one is we have nested RAID.
So this is where you put two types of RAID together such as RAID 10.
So that's another one that's potentially going to come up on the exam.
Understand RAID 10, understand RAID zero, and RAID one.
And just remember that you need EBS optimized instances or at least instances with a decent amount of
network bandwidth at least 10 gigabits per second.
If you're going to be using provisioned IOPS with a large amount of dedicated IOPS.
Another thing worth mentioning is that if you're using encryption the encryption operations occur on
the servers that host the EC2 instances.
So that means that your data is secure both in transit and rest.
So when you're moving your data between the EBS which is network attached storage and the actual EC2
instance over a network that data is encrypted and it's also encrypted when it, when it's at rest
actually sitting on it.
Yes but the thing I want to point out here is that AWS state that you can expect the same IOPS performance
on encrypted volumes as you do on unencrypted volumes with a minimal effect on latency.
So you don't have to concern yourself with the performance of your encrypted volumes.
I expect that what they're using is some kind of dedicated cards to offload that from the actual network
adapters.